In addition to the activity of a process, one has to define the capacity unit of the process. This is done by means of the set **prc\_capunt(r,p,cg,u)**, where the index **cg** denotes the primary commodity group. In the example in Figure 3 the capacity of the refinery process is defined in mtoe/a (megatonne oil equivalent). Since the capacity and activity units are different (mtoe for the capacity and PJ for the activity), the user has to supply the conversion factor from the energy unit embedded in the capacity unit to the activity unit. This is done by specifying the parameter **prc\_capact(r,p)**. In the example **prc\_capact** has the value 41.868.

Image /page/0/Figure/1 description: The image shows a diagram of a refinery process. The diagram includes the following elements: "Oil" is connected to a box labeled "Refinery SRE". The box is also labeled "Activity in PJ" and "Capacity in mtoe/a". Two blue lines connect the box to a vertical line labeled "All commodities in PJ". The vertical line is also labeled with "DSL" for "Diesel" and "GSL" for "Gasoline". An arrow points from "Commodity group CG\_SRE" to the two blue lines. The image also includes the following text: "Definition of capacity unit PRC\_CAPUNT(r,p,cg,u) = {UTOPIA.SRE.CG\_SRE.MTOE}" and "Conversion factor from capacity to activity unit PRC\_CAPACT UTOPIA,SRE = 41.868".

**Figure 3: Example of the definition of the capacity unit**

It might occur that the unit in which the commodity(ies) of the primary commodity group are measured, is different from the activity unit. An example is shown in Figure 4. The activity of the transport technology CAR is defined by commodity TX1, which is measured in passenger kilometres PKM. The activity of the process is, however, defined in vehicle kilometres VKM, while the capacity of the process CAR is defined as number of cars NOC.

Image /page/0/Figure/4 description: The image shows a diagram of a car and its related activities and capacities. The car is labeled as "Car CAR" in the center of a rectangle. On the left side of the rectangle is "DSL" and "Activity in 'vehicle kilometers' VKM". On the right side of the rectangle is "TX1" and "Commodity unit 'Passenger kilometers' PKM". Below the rectangle is "Capacity in '# of cars' NOC". Below the diagram are the following equations: "Definition of process activity PRC\_ACTUNT(r,p,cg,u) = {UTOPIA.CAR.TX1.PKM}", "Definition of capacity unit PRC\_CAPUNT(r,p,cg,u) = {UTOPIA.CAR.TX1.NOC}", "Conversion factor from capacity to activity unit PRC\_CAPACT UTOPIA, CAR = 10000", and "Conversion factor from activity unit to commodity unit PRC\_ACTFLO UTOPIA, 2000,CAR,TX1 = 1.5".

**Figure 4: Example of different activity and commodity units**